---
layout: post
title: "Thoughts on Self Driving Car Ethics"
date: 2020-07-21
---

In June of 2017, the German Federal Ministry of Transport and Digital Infrastructure (BMVI) published a report that included ethical guidelines for safe production and use of autonomous vehicles. Through this publication, Germany is the first country to have proposed a potential global framework for ethical practice of automated driving. The ethics of self-driving cars pose several challenges that institutions such as the MIT Media Lab and the Berkman Klein Center are working on. Here's a look at the fourteenth rule in the BMVI's report.
Benefits of automate driving may extend to gains in public safety and reduction of roadway congestion, which has warranted discussion of which way to step forward in development and deployment of autonomous vehicles (AV’s). Not unlike other automated systems, several challenges are associated with introduction of AV’s to the transportation pipeline. In particular, AV’s are not protected from unauthorized access.
The security of AV’s in reduced roadway collisions and accidents are only observed to the extent that AV systems are resistant to attack by malicious parties. Hijacking a vehicle requires a good hijacking effort; hijacking an AV may only require good programming. In this scope, the BMVI has taken a crucial step. The fourteenth rule in BMVI's publication regarding ethical automated driving expresses a concern for possible “manipulation of the (AV’s) IT system” in “shattering people’s confidence.”
Rule 14 brings to light a weakness of AV’s that is a trivial threat to public safety but may be nontrivial to recognize, especially by public users. Consumers innocently purchase cell phones, shop online, and respond to web advertisements despite the implications of internet piracy and hacking. The question of security and resistivity to malicious influence may seem to concern developers only, because the thought is that if developers can ensure AV’s are safe, then the public need not worry.
The BMVI implicitly argues in the inclusion of rule 14 that such questions are equally important for policymakers to consider. Most consumers at Apple stores are ill-informed of the methods by which their personal information can be accessed by third parties. For several reasons, if consumers at Mercedes-Benz showrooms are similarly ill-informed, the extent of possible damage may be significantly more visible; for example, accessing an innocent consumer’s credit card information is unfortunate, but may not be as destructive as directing the same consumer’s AV to collide with several cars on a populated city bridge. Without policy-directed specifications, the liability of an AV attack can fall to the developer, consumer, or malicious party involved; such confusion is for several reasons legally undesirable. Rule 14 postulates that developers may need to mention explicitly in the course of a transaction that their systems can be piloted by an unexpected pilot; that consumers agree to allow public security surveillance access to their AV systems; and that should an attack occur, regulators reserve the right to suspend AV use possibly for inconveniently long periods of time. Measures of order associated with “AV hacking” undermine notions of free will but are fundamental to the creation of a safe and sound public space. 
To include rule 14 is to make clear to policymakers that it is necessary to impose regulations on participation in the developer space. It may be of interest to tell the start-up incapable of designing security measures that are as rigorous as those of Mercedes-Benz that it cannot release its products into the AV market. Lawmakers may ban the use of AV’s in high-risk public areas such as Times Square on New Year’s Eve.
Rule 14 may spoil the enjoyment of unbounded transaction frequency in the AV market, but when governments put public safety before monetary and convenience considerations, outcomes are generally positive. Strict requirements regarding air travel in the US since 2001, coupled with a significant decrease in air travel attacks since then, is an example.
Educating the public about possible incidents is a responsibility well accepted and emphasized by the BMVI. Rule 14 presents the hint to policymakers and developers that future discussion regarding the public deployment of AV’s must respect a guideline for public safety awareness above several monetary and technological benefits.
